# MSR Steering Committee Elections 2020

The MSR conference will have open elections for two new members for the MSR Steering Committee (SC). The Steering Committee provides general guidance and direction for the MSR Conference; it also selects future GC and PC Chairs. The term is three years. Members of the SC are expected to participate in MSR SC meetings, that will be held via Skype calls and physically during ICSE week. 

We are honored to announce that the following candidates are running for the steering committee (in alphabetical order). The statements and biographies on this page have been provided by the candidates.
* [Chris Bird](#Bird)
* [Abram Hindle](#Hindle)

Given that only two candidates were running for the two open positions on the SC, the Steering Committee decided not to hold an election and add both candidates directly to the Steering Committee.

## <a name="Bird"></a>Chris Bird

Candidate statement:
> I began my academic career by mining software data from source code repositories and email archives and instantly found my place in the Mining Software Repositories community.  In fact, my very first paper and talk were at MSR 2006 when it was still a workshop.  Since then, I have published in and been involved with MSR more than any other community and I believe that it has served as an important springboard for my career and I believe the career of many others (I regularly seek out my interns from MSR attendees!).  Many influential and prominent people (and research) in the software engineering academic community have come from or have been closely associated with the MSR community, and I believe that is due both to the importance of the research topic AND because of the way that the leaders of MSR have deliberately focused on fostering and growing the community.  I owe a debt of gratitude to those who created an inviting, supportive, and collaborative atmosphere for burgeoning researchers to share their work, receive encouraging feedback, and find others that share their passion about improving software engineering through the collection and analysis of software data.  If I am given the opportunity to serve on the steering committee, my primary aim will be continuing to support and even improve this culture.  This will involve focusing on inclusiveness and diversity, both with regard to the people involved in MSR AND the areas of research that MSR is open to.  As someone who works in industrial research, I also aim to find ways to involve practitioners at Microsoft and other companies to connect them with members of MSR in academia.  I will also seek to explore how we can provide unique opportunities for growth and leadership to graduate students and early career faculty. 


Biography:
> Christian Bird is a principal researcher in the Software Analysis and Intelligence (SAINTes) group at Microsoft Research where he has worked for ten years.  He is primarily interested in the relationship between software design, social dynamics, and processes in large development projects and in developing tools and techniques to help software teams.  He has studied software development both quantitatively and qualitatively at Microsoft, IBM, and in the Open Source realm. His work has focused on software productivity, code review, use of branching in source code repositories, and release engineering.  Christian has been involved closely with the MSR community for 14 years, serving as the MSR challenge chair, PC co-chair, awards co-chair, on the program committee many times, and on the steering committee previously.  He has published numerous papers at MSR (more than any other venue), has contributed two public data sets, has managed an MSR special issue for the journal of Empirical Software Engineering, has received one best MSR paper award, and two of his MSR papers have received ten year Most Influential Paper awards. He has served as PC chair and on the PCs of numerous other software engineering conferences and served on the steering committee of ICPC.  Christian received B.S. from Brigham Young University and his Ph.D. from the University of California, Davis under Prem Devanbu (who you should definitely talk to if you ever get the chance because he's a really cool guy!).  He is an avid Seattle Seahawks (american football) fan and lives in Redmond, Washington with his wife and three very energetic children.  Over the past six months, he's taken up sourdough bread making and is still working on creating the perfect loaf!

Web-page: http://www.cabird.com

## <a name="Hindle"></a>Abram Hindle

Candidate statement:
> MSR has the been the bread and butter of my research. I have been involved with MSR since the St. Louis workshop. I was blessed with the chance to program co-chair MSR-2017 in Argentina with Lin Tan. That gave me access to the MSR Steering Committee and allowed me volunteer for various committee duties ranging from awards committee to tutorials. The MSR Steering Committee has lots of duties and seeks lots of input on upcoming conferences and policies. I mostly provided feedback and was able to volunteer for positions and duties as they arose. This year was the last year of my service and thus I want to be involved again and further. Politically the agenda I would engage in would be to ensure review fairness, promotion of the new draft empirical software engineering review guidelines within MSR, promotion of slightly increasing acceptance rates via alternative presentation methods, and of course chip in opinions on various issues and committee duties on various committees.

Biography:
> Abram Hindle is an associate professor of Computing Science at the University of Alberta. His research focuses on problems relating to mining software repositories, improving software engineering-oriented information retrieval with contextual information, the impact of software maintenance on software energy consumption, and how software engineering informs computer music. He likes applying machine learning in music, art, and science. Sadly Abram has no taste in music and produces reprehensible sounding noise using his software development abilities. Abram received a PhD in computer science from the University of Waterloo, and Masters and Bachelors in Computer Science from the University of Victoria. Contact him at abram.hindle[at]ualberta.ca

Web page: https://softwareprocess.es

